The
Practicing
the Way
Course


Companion Guide
Table of Contents


G E T T I N G S TA R T E D

Welcome                                             04
How to Run This Course                              05
Before You Begin: The Spiritual Health Reflection   09


THE EIGHT SESSIONS

Session 01: Following Jesus                          11
Session 02: Formation (Part 01)                     24
Session 03: Formation (Part 02)                      41
Session 04: The Practices                           53
Session 05: Meeting God in Pain and Suffering       65
Session 06: Healing From Sin                         77
Session 07: Crafting a Rule of Life                 89
Session 08: Life Together                           104


CONTINUE THE JOURNEY

The Practices                                       116
Recommended Reading                                 117
The Circle                                          118
      PART 01



Getting Started
Welcome



In the fourth century, the desert father Saint Sarapion         This Course is just a primer. It’s designed to get you started
traveled from his monastery in Egypt to visit a woman in        on the journey of spiritual formation, help you get unstuck
the city of Rome. The woman had become widely known             if you’ve stalled out, or just guide you into taking your
for her devotion to Jesus, but, unlike Sarapion, she did        next step. Ultimately, its goal is to train you to live as an
not retreat into the desert. She stayed firmly planted in the   apprentice of Jesus: to be with Jesus, become like him,
noise and chaos of urban life.                                  and do as he did.

When Sarapion found her, she was quietly sitting                Whatever prompted you to come on this Course, welcome.
in her room.                                                    We’re so happy you’re here.

He asked her, “Why are you sitting here?”                       May this experience lay the foundation for a life of
                                                                apprenticeship to Jesus that you can build on for
She answered, “I’m not sitting, I am on a journey.”
                                                                decades to come.

Following Jesus has long been likened to a spiritual
journey. When Jesus invited his first disciples to “follow”
him on the “way,” he was simultaneously saying that
discipleship to him is a lifelong path.                                         —John Mark Comer and Practicing the Way



04
How to Run
This Course



A few things you need to know
     01   This Course is designed to be done in community, whether with a few friends around a
          table, your small group, in a larger class format, or with your entire church.

     02 The Course is eight sessions long. We recommend meeting together every week or
          every other week.

     03 You will all need a copy of this Companion Guide. You can order a print version at link.
          practicingtheway.org/course-guide or find a free digital PDF version by signing up at
          link.practicingtheway.org/course-signup. We recommend the print version so you can
          stay away from your devices during the practices, as well as take notes during each
          session. But we realize that digital works better for some.

     04 Each session should take about one to two hours, depending on how long you give
          for discussion and whether you engage in the optional after-video discussion. See the
          Sample Session on the following page.



05
Sample session


Here is what a typical session could look like.


Welcome
Welcome the group and open in prayer.


Discussion 1: Practice reflection (15-20 min.)
Process your previous week’s practice in community with the questions in the Guide.


Course Video, Part 1 (20 min.)
Watch Part 1 of the video.


Discussion 2: Group conversation (15-30 min.)
Pause the video when indicated for a group-wide conversation.


Course Video, Part 2 (10 min.)
Watch Part 2 of the video.


Discussion 3: After the video (10-15 min.) (Optional)
If you’d like, we have additional questions in the Guide for continued conversation. They
are geared toward the coming week’s practice.


Prayer to close
Close by praying the liturgy in the Guide, or however you choose.


The Practicing the Way Course is designed to work in a variety of group sizes and
environments. For that reason, your gatherings may include additional elements like a meal
or worship time or follow a structure slightly different than this sample. Please adapt as
you see fit.



06
The weekly rhythm



                                                                        Learn
                                                                    about the Way of Jesus
                                                                        in community.


                                                               TY
                                                          NI
                                                  M   U
                                                  M
                                              CO
                                             IN




               Process                                                                                               Practice
               Together                                         WEEKLY RHY THM                                     on your own with spiritual
                                                                                                                     exercises using your
             what is coming up for you                                                                                Companion Guide.
             through your experience.




                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                       U
                                                                                                  YO
                                                                                             ON




                                                                       Reflect
                                                                     on your own on your
                                                                     experience with God.




01   Learn: Gather together as a community for an interactive                       to 15 minutes to reflect on your experience. Reflection
     experience of learning about the Way of Jesus through                          questions are included in this Guide at the end of
     teaching, storytelling, and discussion. Bring your Guide to                    each session.
     the session and follow along.
                                                                                04 Process together: When you come back together, begin
02 Practice: On your own, before the next session, go and                           by sharing your reflections with your group. This moment
     “put it into practice,” as Jesus himself said. We will provide                 is crucial, because we need each other to process our
     weekly spiritual disciplines and spiritual exercises, as well                  life before God and make sense of our stories. If you are
     as recommended resources to go deeper.                                         meeting in a larger group, you will need to break into
                                                                                    smaller sub-groups for this conversation so everyone has
03 Reflect: Reflection is key to spiritual formation. After
                                                                                    a chance to share.
     your practice and before the next session, set aside 10



07
The Practicing
the Way book
We highly recommend reading the book Practicing the Way by John
Mark Comer alongside this Course, as it will greatly enhance your
learning experience.

Each session’s readings are laid out in the On Your Own sections
in this Guide.




08
Before You Begin:
The Spiritual
Health Reflection
One final note: Before you begin Session 01, please set aside 20 to 30 minutes and take
the Spiritual Health Reflection. This is a self-assessment we developed in partnership with
pastors and leading experts in spiritual formation. It’s designed to help you reflect on the
health of your soul, in order to better name Jesus’ invitations to you as you follow the Way.

You can come back to the Spiritual Health Reflection as often as you’d like (we recommend
one to two times a year) to chart your growth and continue to move forward on your
spiritual journey.

To access the Spiritual Health Reflection, visit practicingtheway.org and create an account,
or follow this QR code. Answer the prompt questions slowly and prayerfully.




09
       PART 02



The Eight Sessions
Following Jesus




      Session 01
                                                                                                                                TO G E T H ER
Overview
Who are you following? Everybody is following somebody. Put another way: We’re all
disciples. The question isn’t, “Are you a disciple?” but, “Who or what are you a disciple of?”
In this session, we explore what it means to be a disciple or apprentice of Jesus.




12                                                                                               Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                                 TO G E T H ER
Opening questions
     Before we begin our first session, process your thoughts and feelings together as a community as you embark on
     this Course.



01 What drew you to this Course?




02 What are you looking forward to?




03 Describe in brief your spiritual journey thus far.




13                                                                                                Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                           TO G E T H ER
Teaching

Scripture
As Jesus walked beside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and his brother
Andrew casting a net into the lake, for they were fishermen. “Come, follow
me,” Jesus said, “and I will send you out to fish for people.” At once they left
their nets and followed him.
—Mark 1v16-18


Session summary
     • Following Jesus is based on the first-century practice of rabbis and apprentices.

     • Today, to follow Jesus means to apprentice under him.

     • To apprentice under Jesus is to organize your life around three driving goals:

         o   Be with Jesus

         o   Become like Jesus

         o   Do as he did

     • Apprenticing under Jesus means practicing a way of life.

     • One of the best ways to begin is through a daily prayer rhythm, where you create a
       time and place for solitude, silence, and prayer.



14                                                                                          Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                  TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
     As you watch Session 01 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




15                                                                                 Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                             TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
     Pause the video and take some time to process together as a community.



Here are some questions for discussion:

01 What are you hoping Jesus will do in you through
   this Course?




02 As you look back on your life, who or what has had the
   greatest impact on your spiritual journey thus far?




03 What do you think is the driving aim of your life? Your top
   goals and priorities?




04 How can we as a community be praying for you?




16                                                                            Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                  TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
     As you continue to watch Session 01 together, feel free to take notes here.




17                                                                                 Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                      TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



God of love, who seeks and pursues us,
teach us how to seek and pursue you too,
that in our learning anew how to pray,
we may give you what you so deeply long for —
all of us enjoying all of you, forever.
Amen.




     OPTIONAL

     If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
     for reflection:

         01 When you envision starting your day with silence, solitude, and prayer,
              what excites you? What challenges you?

         02 Think about your week and come up with a plan. When and where will
              you engage in this practice?




18                                                                                     Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                                   O N YO U R OW N
Practice
Developing a daily prayer rhythm
We need more than information for transformation. The practices of Jesus (which we’ll
learn more about in Session 04) help to get the teachings of Jesus into the muscle memory
of our bodies. They turn the idea of following Jesus into a reality in our daily life.

And one of the best ways to begin to “be with Jesus” is by developing a daily
prayer rhythm.

There’s no “right” way to do this — you may choose to go on an early morning walk with
your dog or curl up under a blanket with a cup of tea or sit cross-legged on the floor and
breathe deeply. You may pray the Psalms or let a prayer app guide your meditation. You
may do this before the sun rises or as it sets.

Whatever you decide, our exercise for Session 01 is to develop a daily time and place to
commune with God through the practices of silence, solitude, and prayer.

Here are a few suggestions for your practice:

     01 Find a quiet place that is distraction-free.

           o   This could be a corner in your home or a nearby park. Find somewhere that you
               can focus and be at peace.


     02 Find a quiet time.

           o   For many people, first thing upon waking is the best possible time to do this; but
               for you, it may be before bed, or while your baby is napping mid-morning, or on a
               lunch break.

           o   The general rule is: Give God your best time of the day.



19                                                                                                  Session 01 – Following Jesus
     03 Come to quiet.




                                                                                                                                        O N YO U R OW N
          o   If at all possible (unless you’re using an app such as Lectio 365 or Pray As You Go
              to guide your prayer time), put your phone away in another room. Start with a few
              deep breaths … in and out of your nose, and let your mind and body calm down.

          o   This may take a few minutes. You’re not in a hurry.

          o   And then...


     04 Open your heart to God in prayer.

          o   Again, there’s no “right” way to pray. But you don’t have to start from scratch.

          o   For thousands of years, followers of Jesus have used the Psalms for daily prayer.
              The Psalms are a collection of poetic prayers found in the middle of the Bible, and
              they were designed to be prayed, not just read.

          o   You can pray one psalm or pray a few; it’s up to you. You can start in Psalm 1 and
              keep going to pray a selection. If you want to pray one psalm, here are some we
              suggest you start with: Psalms 1, 23, 37, 40, 42-43, 63, 84, 86, 103, and 139.


This whole exercise can be done in five minutes, or it can easily take up to an hour —
again, that’s up to you. The key is: Start where you are, not where you feel you “should” be.
If two or three minutes is all you can make happen, start there and take the next step.

If you didn’t get a chance to take the Spiritual Health Reflection before Session 01, please
remember to do so before you come back together. Visit practicingtheway.org and create an
account, or follow the QR code, and answer the prompt questions slowly and prayerfully.




                                                              This session’s reading
                                                              For this session, we’re reading “Apprentice to Jesus,” in
                                                              Practicing the Way by John Mark Comer, pp. 1-31.




20                                                                                                       Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                              K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in learning more about what it means to be an apprentice of Jesus or
growing in your practice of prayer, here are some more resources to consider.




Recommended reading
      • The Deeply Formed Life by our guest, Rich Villodas

      • The Great Omission by Dallas Willard

      • Walking in the Dust of Rabbi Jesus by Lois Tverberg

      • Praying like Monks, Living like Fools by Tyler Staton

      • Time for God by Jacques Philippe


Recommended listening
      • Rich Villodas’ teaching series, The Deeply Formed Life from New Life Fellowship:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s1

      • The Practicing the Way Vision Series from Bridgetown Church: bridgetown.church/
        series/practicing-the-way

      • Episode 01 of the Practicing the Way podcast: link.practicingtheway.org/course-s1b


Additional resources
The Prayer Practice from Practicing the Way: practicingtheway.org/prayer
If you’d like to learn more about the practice of prayer, you can run the Prayer Practice, a
four-session experience designed to integrate the practice of prayer into your regular life.



21                                                                                             Session 01 – Following Jesus
                                                                                                                                     K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it allows what we
learn to become a part of who we are.



     Before your next time together, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following three questions.


      01 What was most challenging about practicing a rhythm of prayer?

      02 What is something you enjoyed about it?

      03 What are you hoping for as you continue this rhythm of prayer?




22                                                                                                    Session 01 – Following Jesus
     Formation
       Part 01




        Session 02
23                   Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                                    TO G E T H ER
Overview
Spiritual formation isn’t a Christian thing or even a religious thing; it’s a human thing. To be
human is to grow, to mature, to adapt over time. Formation is simply the process by which
our “spirit,” or inner person, is formed into a particular shape or character. Over a lifetime,
we are spiritually formed by a complex alchemy of genetic inheritance, family patterns,
childhood wounds, education, habits, decisions, relationships, environments, and more.

The problem is, most of our spiritual formation is unintentional. It just happens. And often,
we are “conform[ed] to the pattern of this world,” more than “transformed by the renewing
of [our] mind.”*




Practice reflection
     Before we begin Session 02, break up into small groups and share your reflections on last session’s practice
     of prayer.


      01 What was most challenging about practicing a rhythm of prayer?

      02 What is something you enjoyed about it?

      03 What are you hoping for as you continue this rhythm of prayer?




* Romans 12v2




24                                                                                                  Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
Teaching




                                                                                                                                      TO G E T H ER
Scripture
Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the
renewing of your mind.
—Romans 12v2


Session summary
     • Spiritual formation isn’t a Christian thing; it’s a   • Most of our formation is unintentional.
       human thing.
                                                             • Some of the most important questions to
     • We are formed by a complex web of forces, but           reflect on are:
       especially by:                                               o   Who am I becoming?
         o   Habits                                                 o   Am I being intentional about who I am becoming?
         o   Relationships                                   • One of the best ways to do this is through a
         o   The stories we believe                            Formation Audit.

         o   Environment

         o   Time

         o   Experience




                                                                                 S TO R I E S




        Unintentional
        Spiritual                                                              ENVIRONMENT




        Formation                                               HABITS                          R E L AT I O N S H I P S




                                                             TIME                                             EXPERIENCE




25                                                                                                    Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
     As you watch Session 02 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




26                                                                                 Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
                                                                                                              TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
     Pause the video and take some time to process together as a community.



Here are some questions for discussion:

01 What habits do you keep in your daily and weekly life? How
   might they be shaping you?




02 Who are the most important people in your life? What do
   those relationships look like?




03 As you reflect on your own journey, what stories have
   shaped the way you view the world? Where did these
   stories originate?




04 Did God reveal anything new to you in this session that you
   want to say more about?




27                                                                            Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
     As you continue to watch Session 02 together, feel free to take notes here.




28                                                                                 Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
                                                                                                                       TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



Good Creator, who made our inmost parts,
you see more of us than we do,
you know us better than we ever will,
and yet you call us “beloved”;
give us courage to see ourselves in the light,
to be honest with who we are, and what we’re not,
that in our being fully seen by you,
we may be transformed ever more greatly,
by your love, into your holy image.
Amen.



     OPTIONAL


     If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
     for reflection:

         01 When you consider the list of forces that can unintentionally form us,
              does anything surprise you or stand out to you?

         02 When do you plan to set aside time for your Formation Audit? Is there
              anything coming up for you as you think about doing the audit?




29                                                                                     Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
                                                                                                                                   O N YO U R OW N
Practice


Formation Audit
Practice helps the information we take in become a part of who we are and
transform our lives.

Our exercise for this session is to take an inventory of all the forces that are currently
forming you.

      01 This is one of the longest exercises in this Course, and we recommend you
             carve out a quiet time and place to spend ample time in thoughtful reflection
             and prayer.

      02 Invite the Spirit of Jesus to come and illuminate your mind, silence the voice of
             the evil one, and to “give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation, so that you may
             know him better,” and that “the eyes of your heart may be enlightened.”*

      03 Remember to answer honestly and non-judgmentally. You will likely feel your heart
             drift toward shame and denial, both of which will sabotage the effectiveness of
             this exercise.

      04 Above all, do this exercise with God. Slowly and prayerfully, and with your
             heart at peace.


* Ephesians 1v17-18




30                                                                                                 Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
Habits — What habits make up your everyday life? Write out




                                                                                                                     O N YO U R OW N
your habits.
Morning routine:




Activities of a typical workday:




Evening routine:




Activities of a typical weekend:




Reflection: How do you think your habits are shaping you as a person? (See the two
lists on page 37 for a list of possible effects)




31                                                                                   Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
Relationships — What relationships make up most of your life?




                                                                                                                      O N YO U R OW N
Family:




Friends:




Work:




Community:




Other:




Reflection: How are these people shaping you as a person? The key questions to ask
are: What kind of person do I become when I’m around this person? What do they draw
out in me or suppress in me?




32                                                                                    Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
Stories you believe — What are the “stories” you have come to believe?




                                                                                                                                  O N YO U R OW N
What stories do you believe about God? (What is he like/not like? How does he feel toward you?)




What stories do you believe about yourself? (How does God see you? How do others see you? What
kind of person are you? What do you see for your future?)




What stories do you believe about happiness? (What do you think will make you most happy and
peaceful? Is it God? Money? Marriage? Success? Vacation?)




What stories do you believe about the meaning of life? (What do you think matters most? Perhaps
your career? Family? Health? Something else?)




Reflection: What are the core stories of my life? Are they forming me as a person?




33                                                                                                Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
Environment — What are the cultural distinctives of my environment?




                                                                                                                              O N YO U R OW N
City: What is my city like? What is it known for?




Nation: What is my nation like? What are its highest cultural values?




Generation: What are my generation’s values?




Digital algorithm: What are the algorithms feeding me news, information, and social
connection like?




Ethnic and/or socio-economic group: What are the values and cultural norms and expectations
of my cultural heritage and socio-economic class?




Reflection: How am I being formed or deformed by the cultural forces that are “normal” in
my city/nation/generation/social media feed, but possibly far from the vision of Jesus?




34                                                                                            Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
Experience — What life experiences have most shaped me into who I




                                                                                                                               O N YO U R OW N
am today?
Family of origin: What is my family like? What are its highest values? Deepest dysfunctions?
Greatest legacy?




Traumatic events: Have I experienced a traumatic event? What story has my body wordlessly
learned from that trauma?




Key experiences: What are the key moments on the timeline of my life that have altered the
trajectory of my story?




Spiritual autobiography: What are the key moments of my spiritual journey thus far?




Reflection: How have my experiences formed and deformed me over the years? Where do I
still need healing? What do I need to never forget and hold on to? What am I still missing?




35                                                                                             Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
Possible effects of following “the pattern of this world”:




                                                                                                                           O N YO U R OW N
     • Stress               • Outrage                         • Disconnection                 • Debt

     • Hurry                • Pride                           • Lying                         • Laziness

     • Anxiety              • Distraction                     • Dirty speech                  • Alcoholism

     • Fear                 • Numbness                        • Sarcasm                       • Addiction

     • Insecurity           • Overwhelm                       • Put downs                     • Substance abuse

     • Hypervigilance       • Exhaustion                      • Dishonor of authority         • Impulsiveness

     • Jealousy             • Discouragement                  • Contempt                      • Lust

     • Anger                • Loneliness                      • Careerism                     • Pornography

     • Irritation           • Isolation                       • Overwork                      • Racism

     • Impatience           • Shame                           • Materialism                   • Bigotry

     • Resentment           • Division                        • Discontent




Possible markers of following the Way of God’s Kingdom:
     • Love                 • Unhurried living                • Equity                        • Restfulness

     • Joy                  • Simplicity of life              • Diversity                     • Diligence

     • Peace                • Calm                            • Trust                         • A sense of meaning

     • Patience             • Generosity                      • Acceptance                      and purpose

     • Kindness             • Contentment                     • Authenticity                  • A clear sense of
                                                                                                direction
     • Gentleness           • Freedom                         • Honesty
                                                                                              • Creativity
     • Faithfulness         • Warmth and affection            • Integrity
                                                                                              • Growth
     • Self-control         • Relational connection           • Harmony

     • Faith                • Community                       • Vulnerability

     • Hope                 • Sense of belonging              • Compassion




                                                   This session’s reading
                                                   For this session, we’re reading “Goal #1: Be with Jesus,”
                                                   in Practicing the Way by John Mark Comer, pp. 32-63.




36                                                                                         Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
                                                                                                                             K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in learning more about spiritual formation, here are some more
resources to consider.




Recommended reading
      • Invitation to a Journey by M. Robert Mullholland

      • You Are What You Love by James K.A. Smith

      • Beautiful Resistance by our guest, Jon Tyson



Recommended listening
      • The Way teaching series from Jon Tyson and Church of the City New York:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s2

      • Episode 02 of the Practicing the Way podcast: link.practicingtheway.org/course-s2b



37                                                                                           Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
                                                                                                                                      K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it allows what we
learn to become a part of who we are.



     Before your next time together, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following three questions.


      01 What did you find helpful about taking the Formation Audit?

      02 When you consider the ways you are being unintentionally formed, what felt most
          challenging?

      03 Did anything surprise you?




38                                                                                                    Session 02 – Formation Pt. 01
     Formation
       Part 02




        Session 03
39                   Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                                  TO G E T H ER
Overview
In the last session, we explored the reality that we’re already being formed by our habits,
relationships, environments, and more. Therefore, all formation in the Way of Jesus is
counter-formation. As apprentices of Jesus, our goal is to intentionally slow our lives down
to find deep joy in walking with Jesus.




Practice reflection
     Before we begin Session 03, break up into small groups and share your reflections on last session’s Formation
     Audit exercise.


      01 What did you find helpful about taking the Formation Audit?

      02 When you consider the ways you are being unintentionally formed, what felt most
          challenging?

      03 Did anything surprise you?




40                                                                                                Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
Teaching




                                                                                                                                                  TO G E T H ER
Scripture
The apprentice is not above the rabbi, but everyone who is fully trained will be
like their rabbi.
—Luke 6v40*


Session summary
     • We may desire to become more like Jesus, but feel stuck.

     • The problem is that we don’t know how to become like Jesus.

     • We need a training program — a reliable pathway to transformation.

     • We find this in the Way of Jesus, where we are formed by:

         o   The Practices

         o   Community

         o   Teaching

         o   The Holy Spirit

     • Formation happens over time and through suffering.

     • And one of the best ways to begin to change is to replace an unhealthy habit with the
       practice of reading Scripture daily.


*      Key words adapted




        Intentional
                                                                                             T E AC H I N G




        Spiritual
        Formation*
                                                                                            H O LY S P I R I T




                                                                         P R AC T I C E S                        COMMUNITY




        *Adapted from Dr. James Bryan Smith’s ‘Triangle of
        Transformation’ in The Good and Beautiful God.                TIME                                            SUFFERING




41                                                                                                                Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
     As you watch Session 03 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




42                                                                                 Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                              TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
     Pause the video and take some time to process together as a community.



Here are some questions for discussion:

01 Have you ever had a moment in your discipleship where
   you felt “stuck,” whether in habits, unhealthy emotional
   patterns, or in your relationship to God?




02 With the paradigm of Intentional Spiritual Formation in
   mind, how have you participated in your own formation
   over the years?




03 How have you understood the Holy Spirit’s role in
   spiritual formation?




04 Have you had an experience of intentionally opening your
   pain and suffering to God? What did God produce in your
   formation through that experience?




43                                                                            Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
     As you continue to watch Session 03 together, feel free to take notes here.




44                                                                                 Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                          TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



Thank you, Father, for your word,
for your Son who speaks it to us,
and for your Spirit who illumines it within.
Teach us how to read it with you,
that we may learn to love its wisdom,
goodness, and truth, growing in your Way.
Amen.



     OPTIONAL


     If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
     for reflection:

         01 How do you currently engage with Scripture?

         02 What comes up for you when you think about starting your day
              with a rhythm of reading Scripture? What would you like to share
              with your group?

         03 As a group, talk about your plan for this week. Will you use a reading plan
              or a particular book of the Bible? What time and setting is best for you?
              (Reading plan ideas are listed at the end of the Practice section.)




45                                                                                        Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                                       O N YO U R OW N
Practice
Daily reading of Scripture
Information alone doesn’t produce transformation. To grow, let’s put what we’ve learned
into practice.

Last session, you conducted a Formation Audit. You made a list of all your habits and
relationships, and then you attempted to connect the dots between them and your formation or
deformation.

Did you identify any habits or relationships or stories that seem to be having a negative
effect on you?

This session’s practice is to take the next step and replace an old habit with a new practice.

And if it’s not already a part of your daily life with God, we invite you to begin the practice of
reading Scripture. The best way to do this is likely to add it to the daily prayer rhythm you began
two sessions ago. Hopefully by now you’re learning to carve out a quiet place and time, and
come to quiet before God. A next step could be to integrate the reading of Scripture into your
daily rhythm in a prayerful, peaceful way.

Here are a few reminders from the Prayer Practice:

     01 Identify a quiet place that is distraction-free.

           o   This could be a corner in your home or a nearby park. Find somewhere that you
               can focus and be at peace.

           o   If at all possible (unless you’re using an app to read or follow a reading plan), put
               your phone away in another room.



46                                                                                                     Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
     02   Identify a quiet time.




                                                                                                                                        O N YO U R OW N
           o   For many people, first thing upon waking is the best possible time to do this; but
               for you, it may be before bed, or while your baby is napping mid-morning, or on a
               lunch break.

           o   The general rule is: Give God your best time of the day.



     03 Come to quiet

           o   Start with a few deep breaths … in and out of your nose, and let your mind and
               body calm down.
           o   This may take a few minutes. You’re not in a hurry.
           o   And then …


     04 Open your heart to God in prayer

           o   Again, there’s no “right” way to pray. But you don’t have to start from scratch.



     05 Read Scripture

           o   Choose a section of Scripture or follow a Bible reading plan suggested in the Keep
               Growing section below.

           o   As you read, you might want to notice what resonates with you, what emotionally
               lifts off the page and into your heart.

           o   Your goal is to listen for Jesus’ voice coming to you.



This whole exercise can be done in five minutes, or it can easily take up to an hour — again,
that’s up to you. The key is: Start where you are, not where you feel you “should” be.




                                                                 This session’s reading
                                                                 For this session, we’re reading “Goal #2: Become
                                                                 like him,” in Practicing the Way by John Mark
                                                                 Comer, pp. 64-117.




47                                                                                                      Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                                      K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in learning more about intentional spiritual formation or the practice of
reading Scripture, here are some more resources to consider.



BibleProject                                                       Recommended reading
We highly recommend the amazing videos and resources                      • The Renovation of the Heart by Dallas Willard
from our friends at BibleProject, who are all about helping               • Liturgy of the Ordinary by our guest, Tish
people engage with Scripture as a unified story that leads to               Harrison Warren
Jesus.
                                                                          • Shaped by the Word by M. Robert Mulholland
On the topic of Scripture, we recommend the following:

         • For a taste, the Genesis 1 video:                       Recommended listening
           link.practicingtheway.org/course-s3a
                                                                          • The Scripture Practice teaching series by
         • On reading Scripture, the How to Read the Bible
                                                                            Bridgetown Church:
           video series: link.practicingtheway.org/course-s3b
                                                                            bridgetown.church/series/scripture
         • To go deeper, the Paradigm podcast:
                                                                          • The Year of Biblical Literacy by Reality San
           bibleproject.com/podcast/series/paradigm
                                                                            Francisco: realitysf.com/bible
BibleProject reading plans, bibleproject.com/reading-plans,
                                                                          • Episode 03 of the Practicing the Way podcast:
and some suggestions:
                                                                            link.practicingtheway.org/course-s3

         • The Character of God 			                   6 days

         • Introduction to the Christian Faith 		     8 days       Additional Resources
         • What Gives You Hope?			                    7 days
                                                                          • The Scripture Practice from Practicing the Way:
         • Trusting God Through Suffering 		          6 days                practicingtheway.org/scripture (coming January

         • One Story That Leads to Jesus		            1 year                2025). If you’d like to learn more about the practice
                                                                            of reading Scripture, you can run the Scripture
                                                                            Practice, a four-session experience designed to
                                                                            integrate the practice of reading Scripture into your
                                                                            regular life.



48                                                                                                    Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
                                                                                                                                     K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it allows what we
learn to become a part of who we are.



     Before your next time together, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following four questions.


      01 How did your practice of reading Scripture go following the last session?

      02 Where did you experience resistance in this practice?

      03 In what ways did you encounter God in it?

      04 Did anything surprise you?




49                                                                                                   Session 03 – Formation Pt. 02
     The Practices




          Session 04
50                     Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Overview
The practices of Jesus are essential to our spiritual formation. They are how we do what we
can do — sabbath, pray, read Scripture — to make space for God to transform us into the
kind of people who can do what we currently cannot do — live and love like Jesus. And
they slow our busy lives down to the pace and presence of “the God of peace.”




Practice reflection
     Before we begin Session 04, break up into small groups and share your reflections on last session’s practice of
     reading Scripture.


      01 How did your practice of reading Scripture go following the last session?

      02 Where did you experience resistance in this practice?

      03 In what ways did you encounter God in it?




51                                                                                                    Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                               TO G E T H ER
Teaching
Scripture
Very early in the morning, while it was still dark, Jesus got up, left the house
and went off to a solitary place, where he prayed.
—Mark 1v35


Session summary
     • The Practices are disciplines based on the lifestyle of Jesus that create time and space
       for us to access the presence and power of the Spirit and, in doing so, be transformed
       from the inside out.

     • Practices are a means to an end: to live and love like Jesus.

     • We approach deeper changes in our life indirectly, not directly, by practicing ancient
       disciplines that open us up to God to change us at the deepest level.

     • Practices are not the whole of the spiritual life, they are just one part of it.

     • They are essential for those who desire to be transformed to become more like Jesus.

     • One of the most important practices for our age of exhaustion is Sabbath — a full day
       set aside to stop, rest, delight, and worship.




The Practices
Sabbath                               Solitude                                      Community
Prayer                                Generosity                                    Service
Fasting                               Scripture                                     Witness


52                                                                                                Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
     As you watch Session 04 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




53                                                                                 Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                           TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
     Pause the video and take some time to process together as a community.



Here are some questions for discussion:

01 What’s your experience with the spiritual disciplines? What
   practices have you engaged with in your spiritual journey?




02 If the practices are the means, what do you understand the
   end of the spiritual life to be?




03 Who has most reflected God’s love to you? Where did you
   see the life of Jesus at work in them?




04 Do you practice any kind of Sabbath or day of rest? Or is
   this a new discipline for you?




54                                                                            Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
     As you continue to watch Session 04 together, feel free to take notes here.




55                                                                                 Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                    TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



With the stillness of this night,
we offer the stillness of our beings —
our minds, our hands, our souls;
that in the quiet of your love
we may again hear you whisper,
“You are my beloved.”




     OPTIONAL


     If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
     for reflection:

         01 What comes to mind for you when you think about ceasing some things
              and embracing what gives life?

         02 Talk about your plan with your group. When and where will you
              practice Sabbath?




56                                                                                     Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                                  O N YO U R OW N
Practice
Sabbath
To grow, we need more than content; we need real, embodied practice.

In our age of exhaustion, Sabbath is one of the most neglected and most crucial of all the
practices of Jesus. But it can be daunting to begin, as it’s an entire 24 hours, and you’re
swimming against the current of our entire culture. Powerful forces keep us tethered to our
devices, distractions, and the endless queue of work and responsibilities.

So, start small. If a full Sabbath day is too much for you, start with a Sabbath morning or
afternoon. Set aside a few hours after church or early on a Saturday to embrace the four
movements of Sabbath: stop, rest, delight, and worship.

Four things to keep in mind as you begin:

     01 Begin by connecting with God. The Hebrew people called this “sanctifying the day,”
         setting it aside from the other six days. You could light two candles, or pray a Psalm or
         share a meal or begin with Sunday worship at your church. But have a clear ritual or
         moment with God that begins and ends your Sabbath time.

     02 If you can, spend part of the day with your family or friends who follow Jesus. You
         could throw a Sabbath meal or just spend unhurried time in conversation.

     03 Do whatever makes you come alive in God. Nap, read poetry, play basketball with
         your kids. Pursue whatever activities make you feel joyful, rested, and alive to God;
         whatever it is you do that makes heart spontaneously burst into gratitude and worship.

     04 Keep at it. Integrating Sabbath keeping into your life usually takes months or years, not
         weeks. Just smart small and aim at joy.



57                                                                                                   Session 04 – The Practices
Here’s a short guide to planning out




                                                                                                                                    O N YO U R OW N
your next Sabbath.
     • When will you sabbath? (Include your start and end time)




     • How will you mark the beginning and end of your sabbath time?
       (A ritual or liturgy or prayerful moment)




     • What will you do with your devices?




     • What do you need to do to prepare? (Grocery shopping, emails, errands, work tasks,
       phone calls, etc.)




     • How will you include friends and family?




     • What will you do to fill your heart with joy and peace?




     • How can you create sabbath for those who have none?




                                                            This session’s reading
                                                            For this session, we’re reading “Goal #3: Do as he did,” in
                                                            Practicing the Way by John Mark Comer, pp. 118-155.




58                                                                                                     Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                                   K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in learning more about the keystone practice of Sabbath, here are some
more resources to consider.




Recommended reading                                                  • The Sabbath series from The Rule of Life Podcast:
                                                                       link.practicingtheway.org/course-s4d
      • The Sabbath by Dan Allender
                                                                     • The Sabbath series from Bridgetown Church:
      • Keeping the Sabbath Wholly by Marva J. Dawn                    bridgetown.church/series/sabbath
      • The Sabbath by Abraham Joshua Heschel                        • Episode 04 of the Practicing the Way podcast:
      • Subversive Sabbath by A.J. Swoboda                             link.practicingtheway.org/course-s4e




Recommended listening                                         Additional Resources
      • Sabbath Rhythms sermon by Rich Villodas:                     • The Sabbath Practice from Practicing the Way:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s4a                           practicingtheway.org/sabbath. If you’d like to learn
                                                                       more about the practice of Sabbath, you can run
      • Subversive Sabbath sermon by A.J. Swoboda:
                                                                       the Sabbath Practice, a four-session experience
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s4b
                                                                       designed to integrate the practice of Sabbath into
      • Rest Must Be Stronger Than Exhaustion sermon by
                                                                       your regular life.
        Jon Tyson: link.practicingtheway.org/course-s4c



59                                                                                                    Session 04 – The Practices
                                                                                                                                     K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it allows what we
learn to become a part of who we are.



     Before your next time together, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following four questions.


      01 What was challenging about your Sabbath practice?

      02 Where did you feel delight in your practice?

      03 Where did you most experience God’s nearness?

      04 Is there anything different you would like to try related to the practice of Sabbath?




60                                                                                                      Session 04 – The Practices
      Meeting God in
     Pain and Suffering




            Session 05
61                       Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                       TO G E T H ER
Overview
Jesus once said, “In this world you will have trouble.” Pain and suffering are inevitable in
this life. Often, when we begin to practice the disciplines, the unhealed wounds of a lifetime
rise to the surface of our hearts. Everything in us wants to run in the opposite direction —
to deny, detach, or drug our pain. But the invitation of Jesus is to meet him in our pain, and
let it become the crucible of our formation.




Practice reflection
     Before we begin Session 05, break up into small groups and share your reflections on last session’s practice
     of Sabbath.


      01 What was challenging about your Sabbath practice?

      02 Where did you feel delight in your practice?

      03 Where did you most experience God’s nearness?

      04 Is there anything different you would like to try related to the practice
          of Sabbath?




62                                                                                    Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                                                                  TO G E T H ER
Teaching
Scripture
Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to
them, “Sit here while I go over there and pray.” He took Peter and the two sons
of Zebedee along with him, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then
he said to them, “My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death.
Stay here and keep watch with me.” Going a little farther, he fell with his face
to the ground and prayed, “My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken
from me. Yet not as I will, but as you will.”
—Matthew 26v36-39


Session summary
          • The practices are not a religious formula to habit-stack                                  Spiritual bypassing
             our way into spiritual formation.                                                        A tendency to use spiritual ideas and practices to sidestep
                                                                                                      or avoid facing unresolved emotional issues, psychological
          • When we slow down and come to quiet before God,
                                                                                                      wounds, and unfinished developmental tasks*.
             often the first thing that comes up is emotional pain,
             as our soul begins to process and discharge all the
                                                                                                      Emotional maturity
             pain and suffering of our life.
                                                                                                      You’re aware of your feelings, but you’re not run by
          • There are three primary ways people deal with pain:                                       your feelings.

                o   Deny
                                                                                                      Spiritual maturity
                o   Detach
                                                                                                      The ability and willingness to know and do the will of God.
                o   Drug

          • The Jesus way is to meet God in our pain.

          • Left unhealed, emotional pain can sabotage our
             transformation. But if we open it to God, it can
             become the secret to our transformation.

* John Welwood, “Principles of Inner Work: Psychological and Spiritual,” Journal of Transpersonal Psychology 16, no. 1 (1984).




63                                                                                                                               Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                    TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
     As you watch Session 05 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




64                                                                                 Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                               TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
     Pause the video and take some time to process together as a community.



Here are some questions for discussion:

01 Can you tell one story of a painful experience you’ve been
   through that has been used for good in your formation?




02 How have you experienced God in times of pain
   and suffering?




03 Which of the three responses to emotional pain are you
   most inclined toward: deny, detach, or drug? What has that
   looked like in your life?




04 What could it look like for you to reorient yourself to the
   pain in your life as an opportunity to be formed by God?




65                                                                            Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                    TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
     As you continue to watch Session 05 together, feel free to take notes here.




66                                                                                 Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                        TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



God of Gethsemane, who experiences
and knows the pain of our condition,
help us turn to you in the ache of our emotions
when the day has turned to darkness,
that we may know the liberation of your
transforming love, not only by the calm
waters’ edge, but when we’re traveling on
the waters of the storms that life brings.
Amen.



     OPTIONAL


     If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
     for reflection:

         01 How familiar are you with noticing and naming your feelings?

         02 As you consider the spiritual exercise of noticing and naming your
              feelings in prayer, what comes up for you?

         03 Come up with a plan for your practice this week. When will you try
              the exercise?




67                                                                                     Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                                O N YO U R OW N
Practice
Noticing and naming your emotions
Let’s put this teaching into practice, so that what we’re learning             02 Name: Then name the emotion and be as specific
can become part of who we are.                                                        as possible. You may want to use the following list
                                                                                      of emotions. Just pick out one to three words from
The journey into emotional health involves learning to notice
                                                                                      the Feelings list on the following page that put
and name our emotions in the presence of God.
                                                                                      language to what you’re experiencing in your body.

When we notice and name our feelings, they have less power                     03 Feel: Just sit in those feelings. Sink into them.
over us. If you were to name a painful emotion like fear, anger,                      Normally, we turn away from them and run in the
disappointment, or jealousy, a brain scan would show that your                        opposite direction. Instead, turn and face them,
very act of naming it helps to process quiets that emotion.                           like you would an ocean wave, and let it wash over
This is why psychiatrist Dan Siegel encourages us to “name it                         you and then pass you by.
to tame it.”
                                                                               04 Offer it to God: Remember and follow Jesus’
This session’s spiritual exercise is a simple template for prayer                     Gethsemane Prayer.
designed to notice and name your feelings and offer them to
                                                                                  o    Give God your feelings — Tell him what you are
God in prayer.
                                                                                       feeling, with no filter.
       • Find a quiet, distraction-free place and time.                           o    Give God your desires — Tell him what you really

       • Put away your phone or any devices, and settle into a                         want, good or bad.

         comfortable but alert position.                                          o    Give God your trust — Surrender your heart

       • Take a few minutes to breathe and center your                                 again to him. Stop grasping for control and yield

         awareness in God’s presence. And then do the                                  yourself to God and his will for your life. You may

         following:                                                                    want to pray Jesus’ own prayer, “Not my will, but
                                                                                       yours be done.”

        01 Notice: Now that you are centered in your body
                                                                        You can do this exercise one time before the next session,
               and in God, begin to let yourself feel. Let whatever
                                                                        or every day. It’s also an exercise you can practice for the
               is in you come up. Just notice it. Don’t fight it or
                                                                        rest of your life, to open deeper and deeper parts of your
               run away from it or feel guilty about it or judge it —
                                                                        inner world to God.
               just notice it. Let the feeling be.



68                                                                                             Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
Feelings list*




                                                                                                                                                                 O N YO U R OW N
Happy                               Sad                                  Angry                        Scared                        Confused
Admired                             Alientated                           Abused                       Afraid                        Ambivalent
Alive                               Ashamed                              Aggravated                   Alarmed                       Awkward
Appreciated                         Burdened                             Agitated                     Anxious                       Baffled
Assured                             Condemned                            Anguished                    Appalled                      Bewildered
Cheerful                            Crushed                              Annoyed                      Apprehensive                  Bothered
Confident                           Defeated                             Betrayed                     Awed                          Constricted
Content                             Dejected                             Cheated                      Concerned                     Directionless
Delighted                           Demoralized                          Coerced                      Defensive                     Disorganized
Determined                          Depressed                            Controlled                   Desperate                     Distracted
Estatic                             Deserted                             Deceived                     Doubtful                      Doubtful
Elated                              Despised                             Disgusted                    Fearful                       Flustered
Encouraged                          Devastated                           Dismayed                     Frantic                       Foggy
Energized                           Disappointed                         Displeased                   Full of Dread                 Hesitant
Enthusiastic                        Discarded                            Dominated                    Guarded                       Immobilized
Excited                             Discouraged                          Enraged                      Horrified                     Misunderstood
Exuberant                           Disgraced                            Exasperated                  Impatient                     Perplexed
Flattered                           Disheartened                         Exploited                    Insecure                      Puzzled
Fortunate                           Disillusioned                        Frustrated                   Intimidated                   Stagnant
Fulfilled                           Dismal                               Fuming                       Nervous                       Surprised


* https://www.ndapandas.org/wp-content/uploads/archive/Documents/News/FeelingsWordList.pdf




                                                                                    This session’s reading
                                                                                    For this session, we’re reading “How? A Rule of Life,” in
                                                                                    Practicing the Way by John Mark Comer, pp. 156-205.




69                                                                                                              Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                       K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in growing even more in your practice of meeting God in pain and
suffering, here are some more resources to consider.




Recommended reading
      • Emotionally Healthy Spirituality by Pete Scazzero

      • Untangle Your Emotions by Jennie Allen

      • The Human Condition by Thomas Keating



Recommended listening
      • The Emotionally Healthy Discipleship Course: link.practicingtheway.org/course-s5

      • In This World You Will Have Trouble teaching series from Bridgetown Church:
        bridgetown.church/series/in-this-world




70                                                                                    Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
                                                                                                                                       K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it
allows what we learn to become a part of who we are.



     Before your next time together, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following three questions.


      01 What was your experience of noticing and naming your feelings before God like?

      02 What were the most common feelings that came up for you? Was anything a
          surprise to you?

      03 Where did you most experience God’s nearness in this practice?




71                                                                                    Session 05 – Meeting God in Pain and Suffering
     Healing From Sin




           Session 06
72                      Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Overview
Jesus once said, “It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. I have not come to
call the righteous, but sinners.”* He likened sin to a disease and himself to a healer. Based
on this text, ancient Christians called Jesus “the doctor of the soul.”

And trying to go on the spiritual journey of discipleship without healing from sin is like
trying to run a marathon with a broken leg — you’re not going to get very far, and it’s not
going to be very fun.

A key step in our apprenticeship to Jesus is healing from sin.




Practice reflection
     Before we begin Session 06, break up into small groups and share your reflections on last session’s exercise of
     noticing and naming your feelings in prayer.


      01 What was your experience of noticing and naming your feelings before God like?
          Where did you feel delight in your practice?

      02 What were the most common feelings that came up for you? Was anything a
          surprise to you?

      03 Where did you most experience God’s nearness in this practice?




*         Mark 2v17




73                                                                                                 Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                                                       TO G E T H ER
Teaching
Scripture
 It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. I have not come to call
the righteous, but sinners.
—Mark 2v17


Session summary
     • A key aspect of the spiritual journey is healing from sin.

     • Three dimensions to sin:

          o   Sin done by us

          o   Sin done to us

          o   And sin done around us

     • Four layers of sin we move through in our healing:*

          o   Gross sins

          o   Conscious sins

          o   Unconscious sins

          o   Attachments

     • Our part in the healing of sin is the practice of confession.




*      M. Robert Mulholland, Invitation to a Journey: A Road Map for Spiritual Formation (Downers Grove: IVP, 2016).




74                                                                                                                     Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
     As you watch Session 06 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




75                                                                                 Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                                       TO G E T H ER
In-session
reflection exercise
     Pause the video and take a few minutes in the quiet to journal through the following questions:



01 What do you believe about how God sees you and your sin?




02 What came up for you as we talked about sin?




03 Is there anyone you need to forgive or ask for forgiveness
   from, including God?




76                                                                                                     Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                               TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
     Now take some time to process together as a community, sharing with your small group whatever you’re comfortable
     with in response to the following:


Here are some questions for discussion:

01 Growing up, what was your understanding of sin and God’s
   response to it?




02 When you sin, what do you normally do?




03 As you think about your sin patterns, what attachments or
   idols are you clinging to in your pursuit of happiness?




04 In light of this teaching, what steps may God be inviting you
   to take toward healing?




77                                                                                             Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                   TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
     As you continue to watch Session 06 together, feel free to take notes here.




78                                                                                 Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                       TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



Loving God, we open ourselves to you
and confess all that we have and have not done,
both consciously and unconsciously,
in opposition to your goodness.
Help us to live more openly with you,
that in our being seen in all,
we may also too be healed in all,
growing in your love.
Amen.



     OPTIONAL


     If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
     for reflection:

         01 What comes up for you as you consider this session’s exercise
              in confession?

         02 Is there someone who comes to mind when you consider practicing
              confession? Or would you be open to partnering with someone in
              your group?

         03 What steps do you need to take to set yourself up to practice
              confession this week?




79                                                                                     Session 06 – Healing From Sin
Practice




                                                                                                                                     O N YO U R OW N
Confession
We heal from sin by coming out of hiding. This is why this session, almost more than any other,
must be put into practice. The practice of naming your sin to another person is what the writers
of the Bible call “confession.”

When we feel guilt and shame because of something we’ve done or not done, confession is
likely the last thing we feel like doing.

But the path to being free from shame involves being open and transparent with someone we
trust. In James 5v16 we read, “Confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that
you may be healed.” When we name our sin or shame or secret with a trusted person, we can
experience healing.

The practice is simple:

     01 Find someone you trust who will both love and accept you, and call you up to
         holiness. This could be a spiritual friend, community member, pastor, spiritual
         director, or therapist.

     02 Find a place to meet that is private enough for you to feel safe and at peace.

     03 Name your sin or shame or secret. Tell them the sin done by you, to you, or
         around you.

     04 Let them love you, be faithful to you, and speak Jesus’ forgiveness over you.

For those of you hearing a confession, your role is very important. Don’t shame or lecture or
scold, just welcome in love.

Continue this practice on a regular basis, and keep the conversation going.




                                                             This session’s reading
                                                             For this session, we’re reading “Take up your cross,” the
                                                             final section of Practicing the Way by John Mark Comer,
                                                             pp. 206-221.




80                                                                                                   Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                           K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in growing even more in your practice of confession, here are some
more resources to consider.




Recommended reading
      • The Relational Soul by Richard Plass and James Cofield

      • Not the Way It’s Supposed to Be by Cornelius Plantinga, Jr.



Recommended listening
      • The Sin Series by Jon Tyson at Church of the City New York:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s6a

      • The Bad Words video series by BibleProject: link.practicingtheway.org/course-s6b




81                                                                                         Session 06 – Healing From Sin
                                                                                                                                     K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it allows what we
learn to become a part of who we are.



     Before your next time together, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following three questions.


      01 Where did you experience resistance in your practice of confession?

      02 Where did you feel delight?

      03 How does confession impact or change your view of God or yourself?




82                                                                                                   Session 06 – Healing From Sin
     Crafting a
     Rule of Life




         Session 07
83                    Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                      TO G E T H ER
Overview
A Rule of Life is a schedule and a set of practices and relational rhythms that create space
for us to be with Jesus, become like him, and do as he did. It’s an intentional plan to slow
down and simplify our life around being spiritually formed by Jesus. To turn the vision of
spiritual formation into a reality.

It is an ancient idea, whose time has come again.




Practice reflection
     Before we begin Session 07, break up into small groups and share your reflections on last session’s exercise
     of confession.



      01 Where did you experience resistance in your practice of confession?

      02 Where did you feel delight?

      03 How does confession impact or change your view of God or yourself?




84                                                                                             Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                       TO G E T H ER
Teaching
Scripture
I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will
bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing. If you do not remain in
me, you are like a branch that is thrown away and withers; such branches are
picked up, thrown into the fire and burned. If you remain in me and my words
remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. This is to
my Father’s glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my
disciples.
—John 15v5-8


Session summary                                                     Six tips
     • Transformation is possible, but it’s not inevitable.           01 Start small

     • We need an intentional plan for our spiritual formation        02 Think subtraction, not addition
       — what the early Christians called a “Rule of Life.”
                                                                      03 Take a balanced approach
     • A Rule of Life is a schedule and a set of practices and
                                                                      04 Take into account your personality and season of life
       relational rhythms that create space for us to be with
                                                                      05 There is no formation without repetition
       Jesus, become like him, and do as he did.
                                                                      06 Do this in community
     • When crafting a Rule for the first time, it’s important to
       start small, and begin with subtraction, not addition.

     • This coming week, our exercise is to design a
       Rule of Life.



85                                                                                              Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                          TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
     As you watch Session 07 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




86                                                                                 Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                     TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
     Pause the video and take some time to process together as a community.



Here are some questions for discussion:

01 What makes up your current Rule of Life?




02 As you think about designing a Rule of Life, how would
   you describe the spiritual needs of your personality and
   stage of life?




03 What practices do you want to include in your Rule of Life?




04 Who would be important to incorporate in the process of
   building your Rule of Life?




87                                                                            Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                          TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
     As you continue to watch Session 07 together, feel free to take notes here.




88                                                                                 Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                  TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



Help us shape our lives, Father,
in the way of your Son —
the way of prayer and justice,
of generosity and purity,
of self-offering and compassion,
self-mastery and faith —
that the rhythms of our living
may be conduits of your grace,
welcoming your Kingdom in this world.
Amen.



     OPTIONAL


     If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
     for reflection:

         01 As you contemplate crafting a Rule of Life, what are some deep desires
              that come up for you? What changes could bring more flourishing
              to your life?

         02 Imagine some practices you might tend to do individually. What would it
              look like to experience these in community? What does it feel like in your
              body to envision that?




89                                                                                         Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                                O N YO U R OW N
Practice
Crafting a Rule of Life
Now we’re ready to take all the ideas we’ve been learning and “put it into practice” by writing
our own Rule of Life.

There’s no “right way” to craft a Rule of Life, and there’s no one-size-fits-all approach to spiritual
formation. The goal is to write a Rule that is customized for your unique personality, situation,
and community.

To that end, we’ve created a digital tool called the Rule of Life Builder.

     01 Go to practicingtheway.org and log in.


     02 Click on the Rule of Life Builder and follow its prompts. It will guide you through
         daily, weekly, monthly, and seasonal practices in a number of categories.

     03 You can utilize the suggestions, write yours completely from scratch, or do a
         mix of both.

       • Remember: start small. Your Rule can begin with just a few small practices
         and rhythms.

       • In this Course, we’ve covered three basic rhythms:

           o   A daily prayer rhythm that includes the reading of Scripture in the quiet
               of solitude.

           o   A weekly Sabbath.

           o   And next session, we’ll invite you to a weekly touchpoint in community.

       • You can continue these practices and add, subtract, and edit as you sense the Spirit’s
         direction.
                                                                                                                    RULE OF LIFE BUILDER
       • A Rule of Life isn’t static, but dynamic. It changes with the seasons of our lives and
         stages of our discipleship. This digital template is easy to return to and modify. As time
         goes on, revisit your Rule and take the next step in your spiritual journey.

       • You can do this exercise one time before the next session, or every day. It’s also an
         exercise you can practice for the rest of your life, to open deeper and deeper parts of
         your inner world to God.



90                                                                                                       Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                       K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in growing even more in creating life-giving and communal rhythms in
your life, here are some more resources to consider.




Recommended reading
      • God in My Everything by Ken Shigematsu

      • At Home in the World by Margaret Guenther

      • The Life We’re Looking For by our guest, Andy Crouch




Recommended listening

      • Unhurrying with a Rule of Life series from Bridgetown Church:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s7a

      • Unforced Rhythms of Grace teaching series from Bridgetown Church:
        bridgetown.church/series/unforced-rhythms

      • John Mark’s in-depth interview with Andy Crouch on a Rule of Life for the modern age:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s7b

      • Episode 05 of the Practicing the Way podcast:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-7c



91                                                                                              Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                        K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it allows what we
learn to become a part of who we are.



     Before your next time together, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following three questions.


      01 Share about your process of creating a Rule of Life. What worked for you?

      02 What feelings came up for you as you worked through this exercise?

      03 What do you anticipate will be the most life-giving and transformative practice
          you came up with?




92                                                                                               Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                        K EEP G R OW I N G
Rule of Life
Resources
A Rule of Life from Practicing the Way
01   A community of rest in a culture of hurry and exhaustion, through the
     practice of Sabbath.

02   A community of peace and quiet in a culture of anxiety and noise, through
     the practice of solitude.

03   A community of communion with God in a culture of distraction and
     escapism, through the practice of prayer.

04 A community of love and depth in a culture of individualism and
   superficiality, through the practice of community.

05 A community of courageous fidelity to orthodoxy in a culture of ideological
   compromise, through the practice of Scripture.

06 A community of holiness in a culture of indulgence and immorality,
   through the practice of fasting.

07   A community of contentment in a culture of consumerism, through the
     practice of generosity.

08 A community of justice, mercy, and reconciliation in a culture of injustice
   and division, through the practice of service.

09 A community of hospitality in a culture of hostility, through the
   practice of witness.


93                                                                               Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                                                                   K EEP G R OW I N G
                                  Sample Rule of Life 01
                                  FR O M PR AC T I C I N G T H E WAY




                                       S A B B AT H      P R AY E R     FA S T I N G     SOLITUDE    GENEROSITY      SCRIPTURE   COMMUNITY         SERVICE         WITNESS



                                                      Prayer rhythm                    A time in                    Reading
                                                                                       silence to                   Scripture
                                                                                       begin and
                                                                                       end the day
DA I LY




                                   Sabbath day                        Fast until                                                 A meal
                                   to stop, rest,                     sundown                                                    together and
                                   delight, and                                                                                  worship on
W EEKLY




                                   worship                                                                                       Sunday




                                                                                                     Giving 10                                  An act of        An act of
                                                                                                     percent of                                 service to the   hospitality
M O N T H LY/ S E A S O N A LLY




                                                                                                     your income,                               poor with        and regularly
                                                                                                     with special                               the aim of       praying for
                                                                                                     attention to                               kinship          one person in
                                                                                                     the church                                                  your life who
                                                                                                     and the poor                                                does not know
                                                                                                                                                                 Jesus




                                  94                                                                                                        Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                                                                  K EEP G R OW I N G
                                  Sample Rule of Life 02
                                  B R IT TA N Y ’ S R U LE – G R A D UAT E S T U D E N T I N H E R 2 0 S




                                       S A B B AT H     P R AY E R   FA S T I N G     SOLITUDE     GENEROSITY    SCRIPTURE      COMMUNITY         SERVICE         WITNESS



                                                      Spend time                                                Spend time
                                                      with God in                                               with God
                                                      prayer                                                    through Bible
                                                                                                                study
DA I LY




                                   Take a                                                                                       Participate
                                   Sabbath each                                                                                 in church at
                                   Sunday                                                                                       the Sunday
W EEKLY




                                                                                                                                evening
                                                                                                                                service and
                                                                                                                                at young
                                                                                                                                adults group
                                                                                                                                on Monday
                                                                                                                                night




                                                                                    Reflect on     Tithe                        Connect with
                                                                                    how I am                                    my peer-
M O N T H LY/ S E A S O N A LLY




                                                                                    meeting my                                  mentor/
                                                                                    goals/living                                spiritual
                                                                                    my rule and                                 friend
                                                                                    where I need
                                                                                    to grow




                                  95                                                                                                       Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
                                                                                                                                                                                     K EEP G R OW I N G
                                  Sample Rule of Life 03
                                  J U N E’ S R U LE – M A R R I E D W IT H YO U N G S O N , WO R KS A S A T E AC H E R




                                       S A B B AT H      P R AY E R    FA S T I N G   SOLITUDE   GENEROSITY       SCRIPTURE       COMMUNITY          SERVICE         WITNESS



                                                      As I can, pray                                             Read
                                                      throughout                                                 Scripture at
                                                      the day—in                                                 night before
                                                      the car, on a                                              I go to bed;
                                                      walk, before                                               as I can, pray
DA I LY




                                                      meal-times                                                 through these
                                                                                                                 Scriptures the
                                                                                                                 following day




                                   Rest and                                                                                       Small group
                                   Sunday                                                                                         with families
                                   worship,                                                                                       with young
W EEKLY




                                   typically on                                                                                   children
                                   a Saturday                                                                                     (currently
                                   or Sunday                                                                                      working
                                   (depending                                                                                     through a
                                   on what is                                                                                     Bible study
                                   going on)                                                                                      book on
                                                                                                                                  parenting)



                                   Travel once                                                   Tithe every                                                       Through
                                   a year in the                                                 month                                                             friendship
M O N T H LY/ S E A S O N A LLY




                                   summertime                                                                                                                      and invite
                                                                                                 Support                                                           people to
                                                                                                 missionaries                                                      church and
                                                                                                 and other                                                         through our
                                                                                                 charitable                                                        Easter and
                                                                                                 organizations                                                     Christmas
                                                                                                 every month                                                       outreaches



                                  96                                                                                                          Session 07 – Crafting a Rule of Life
     Life Together




         Session 08
97                    Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                                                    TO G E T H ER
Overview
“If you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, go together.” We are
not designed to travel the spiritual journey by ourselves. We need community to
practice the Way.

And Jesus’ call to community goes far beyond church attendance to relationships of depth,
vulnerability, and a commitment to transformation.




Practice reflection
     Before we begin Session 08, break up into small groups and share your reflections on last session’s exercise of
     creating a Rule of Life.


      01 Share about your process of creating a Rule of Life. What worked for you?

      02 What feelings came up for you as you worked through this exercise?

      03 What do you anticipate will be the most life-giving and transformative practice
          you came up with?




98                                                                                                     Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                                                                                                  TO G E T H ER
Teaching
Scripture
A crowd was sitting around him, and they told him, “Your mother and brothers
are outside looking for you.” “Who are my mother and my brothers?” he asked.
Then he looked at those seated in a circle around him and said, “Here are my
mother and my brothers! Whoever does God’s will is my brother and sister
and mother.”
—Mark 3v32-35


Session summary
         • Jesus’ invitation was to come and do life together.                                                        o   Tribe: The larger group we identify with
                                                                                                                          and belong to
         • Through Jesus, we have been adopted into the
             family of God.                                                                                    • Spiritual friendships are marked by three core
                                                                                                                  characteristics:
         • Jesus’ desire is not just to form you into a person of
             love, but to form a community of love.                                                                   o   Depth

         • You can’t follow Jesus alone; spiritual formation is a                                                     o   Vulnerability
             relational process.                                                                                      o   Commitment to transformation

         • Four layers of community*:                                                                          • Our final practice is to cultivate a community of

                o   Intimates: 1-5 people who deeply know                                                         spiritual friendship and begin meeting regularly.

                    and love us

                o   Friends: 15 people with whom we do life

                o   Village: 150 people, the maximum we can be in
                    relationship with



* Robin Dunbar, “Coevolution of neocortical size, group size and language in humans,” Behavioral and Brain Sciences 16, no. 4 (1993).




99                                                                                                                                                   Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                             TO G E T H ER
Teaching notes
  As you watch Session 08 together, feel free to use this page to take notes.




100                                                                             Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                            TO G E T H ER
Discussion questions
      Pause the video and take some time to process together as a community.



Here are some questions for discussion:

01 Of the three relational characteristics named (depth,
   vulnerability, and a commitment to transformation), which is
   the hardest for you?




02 As you reflect on your life and relationships, who has
   been or could be a “soul friend” to you on this spiritual
   formation journey?




03 What has Jesus done in your life over the last eight weeks,
   during our time together?




04 What’s your next step in your spiritual journey, your “next
   right thing”?




101                                                                            Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                             TO G E T H ER
Practice notes
  As you continue to watch Session 08 together, feel free to take notes here.




102                                                                             Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                                     TO G E T H ER
After the video
Closing prayer
End your time together by praying this liturgy:



Lord Jesus,
There is no greater prayer than yours —
make us one as you are one,
in devotion, in living, in love.
Amen.




      OPTIONAL


      If you’d like to continue your conversation, here are some additional questions
      for reflection:

          01 What comes up when you consider meeting in an intentional community?

          02 What natural pathways exist in your life for this, whether within your
               church or other spaces?

          03 As you examine your own desires, what do you envision for your time?
               Engaging in a Practice? Reading a book? Taking a BibleProject class?
               Meeting for a meal or prayer? Or something else?




103                                                                                     Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                                                  O N YO U R OW N
Practice
Do life in community
Jesus’ call to community isn’t a theory or an idea, it’s a practice — a relational way of doing
life together.

Jesus would preach to crowds of thousands, but he spent most of his time with a small circle of
disciples, in homes and around tables.

It’s important to worship in church on Sunday and be part of a larger community, but it’s just as
important to know and name your “twelve” and your “three.” To cultivate spiritual friendships that
last for years.

So our final practice is to identify our intentional community and begin to meet with
them regularly.

      01 Identify a community to meet with regularly.


      02 This community could be with just one or two others, or a dozen or even more.


      03 We recommend you meet weekly, but it could be bi-weekly or monthly.


      04 We also recommend you share a meal when you meet. The act of “breaking bread”
         is central to the Christian way. Something powerful happens when we eat together.

       • But remember, there’s no one “right” model for you to follow. You may choose a house
         church with 20 kids running around a backyard on a Sunday afternoon or a small triad
         for group spiritual direction early in the morning.

       • We encourage you to follow the pathway of your church — whether in a small group,
         table community, or house church, or a women’s or men’s Bible study.

       • You could follow this Course with any of the nine Practices available from Practicing
         the Way, share a weekly meal and pray for one another, or work through more free
         resources from BibleProject, like the following:

            o    Reflections mini-cast with discussion questions: bibleproject.com/podcasts/
                 reflections

            o    Reading plans: bibleproject.com/reading-plans

            o    Heavier classes: bibleproject.com/classroom



104                                                                                                  Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                                               K EEP G R OW I N G
Resources to go
deeper
If you’re interested in learning more about doing life in community, here are some more
resources to consider.




Recommended reading
      • When the Church was a Family by Joseph Hellerman

      • The Connected Life by Todd Hall

      • Made to Belong by David Kim



Recommended listening
      • The Community Practice teaching series from Bridgetown Church:
        link.practicingtheway.org/course-s8



Additional Resources
      • The Community Practice from Practicing the Way: practicingtheway.org/community
        (coming soon). If you’d like to learn more about the practice of community, you can run
        the Community Practice, a four-session experience designed to integrate the practice
        of community into your regular life.



105                                                                                               Session 08 – Life Together
                                                                                                                                      K EEP G R OW I N G
Practice reflection
Reflection is a key component in our spiritual formation. Like practice, it allows what we
learn to become a part of who we are.



  For your final reflection in this course, take five to ten minutes to journal out your answers to the following
  two questions.



      01 As you think back over this Course, what is sticking with you most?

      02 Take a moment to remember how you felt when you first started this Course.
         What has changed in how you feel or think? How do you see yourself or God
         differently? Do you notice any change or growth?




106                                                                                                      Session 08 – Life Together
    PART 03



Continue the
  Journey
The Practices
Information alone isn’t enough to produce transformation.

By adopting not just the teaching but the practices from Jesus’ own life,   Each
we open up our entire being to God and allow him to transform us into
people of love.                                                             Practice
Our nine core Practices work together to form a Rule of Life for            includes:
the modern era.
                                                                            Four Sessions
                                                                            Each session includes teaching,
                                                                            guided discussion, and weekly
                                                                            exercises to integrate the
                                                                            Practices into daily life.

  S A B B AT H                 P R AY E R                  FASTING
                                                                            Companion Guide
                                                                            A detailed guide with question
                                                                            prompts, session-by-session
                                                                            exercises, and space to write
                                                                            and reflect.

  SOLITUDE                   GENEROSITY                    SCRIPTURE
                                                                            Recommended
                                                                            Resources
                                                                            Additional recommended
                                                                            readings and podcasts to get
                                                                            the most out of the Practices.

COMMUNITY                      SERVICE                     WITNESS




108                                                                                               Continue the Journey
Recommended
Reading
Books on spiritual formation                                      Books on Sabbath
      • The Ruthless Elimination of Hurry by John                     • Sabbath by Dan Allender
        Mark Comer
                                                                      • Keeping the Sabbath Wholly by Marva J. Dawn
      • The Renovation of the Heart by Dallas Willard
                                                                      • The Sabbath by Abraham Joshua Heschel
      • The Great Omission by Dallas Willard
                                                                      • Subversive Sabbath by A.J. Swoboda
      • Invitation to a Journey by M. Robert Mulholland

      • The Deeply Formed Life by Rich Villodas
                                                                  Books on community
      • Emotionally Healthy Spirituality by Pete Scazzero
                                                                      • When the Church Was a Family by Joseph Hellerman
      • The Relational Soul by Richard Plass and
        James Cofield                                                 • The Connected Life by Todd Hall

      • Sacred Fire by Ronald Rolheiser                               • Made to Belong by David Kim

                                                                      • Life Together by Dietrich Bonhoeffer

Books on solitude and silence
                                                                  Books on a Rule of Life
      • Invitation to Solitude and Silence by Ruth Haley Barton

      • The Way of the Heart by Henri Nouwen                          • God in My Everything by Ken Shigematsu

      • The Power of Silence by Robert Cardinal Sarah                 • At Home in the World by Margaret Guenther



Books on prayer                                                   Devotional reading
      • Praying Like Monks, Living Like Fools by Tyler Staton         • A Testament of Devotion by Thomas Kelly

      • Armchair Mystic by Mark Thibodeaux                            • With by Skye Jethani

      • Prayer by Richard Foster                                      • Interior Freedom, Time for God, and Searching for and
                                                                        Maintaining Peace by Jacques Philippe
      • The Spiritual Life by Evelyn Underhill
                                                                      • The Pursuit of God by A.W. Tozer
      • The Shattered Lantern by Ronald Rolheiser
                                                                      • Experiencing the Trinity by Darrell Johnson
      • Time for God by Jacques Philippe
                                                                      • Christian Perfection by François Fénelon

Books on Scripture
      • Shaped by the Word by M. Robert Mulholland

      • Eat This Book by Eugene Peterson



109                                                                                                        Continue the Journey
The Circle
Practicing the Way is a nonprofit that develops spiritual formation resources for churches
and small groups learning how to become apprentices in the Way of Jesus.

We believe one of the greatest needs of our time is for people to discover how to become
lifelong disciples of Jesus. To that end, we help people learn how to be with Jesus,
become like him, and do as he did, through the practices and rhythms he and his earliest
followers lived by.

All our resources are available at no cost, thanks to the generosity of The Circle and other
givers from around the world who partner with us to see formation integrated into t he
Church at large.

To learn more or join us, visit practicingtheway.org/give.




110                                                                                            Continue the Journey
Practicing the Way
